thehill.com



Cesar Sayoc Jr., the suspect accused of mailing a series of explosives to prominent Democrats and critics of President TrumpDonald John TrumpCurbelo explains reason he forgave man who tweeted death threat Obama accuses Trump of ‘political stunt’ on border politics Voter registration in California reaches all-time high before midterms MORE, on Friday agreed to be moved to New York to face federal charges, NBC News reported.
Sayoc, 56, was arrested last week in Plantation, Fla., after investigators reportedly linked him to more than a dozen explosive devices that were mailed to high-profile Democrats, including former President Obama, former Democratic presidential candidate Hillary ClintonHillary Diane Rodham ClintonFBI intercepts another suspicious package addressed to Dem donor Steyer Election Countdown: Four days out | Early voting exceeds 2014 numbers in many states | Vulnerable Dems throw their party under the bus | Toss-ups to determine Senate control | 10 House GOP seats most likely to flip | Obama campaigns to preserve his legacy The Hill's 12:30 Report — Trump touts Iran sanctions with 'Game of Thrones' meme | 4 days to midterms | Toss-up races key to Senate battle | Strong October jobs report MORE, as well as to CNN. None of the packages detonated and no injuries were reported.
He waived a bond hearing in Miami, where he has been in federal custody since his arrest, and agreed face the charges against him in New York.
It is unclear when that transport will take place, NBC News noted.
Federal prosecutors in the Southern District of New York have charged him with five criminal counts: Interstate transport of explosives, mailing of explosives, threats against former presidents, making threatening interstate communications and assault of current or former officials.
If convicted on all counts, he faces up to 48 years in prison.
Sayoc’s defense lawyer Jamie Benjamin told NBC News after the hearing that Sayoc will likely have a new legal team in New York.
"We wanted to make sure that all of his constitutional rights were preserved," Benjamin said. "We feel we've done all we can."
Federal prosecutors filed a motion on Tuesday arguing that Sayoc should be detained pending his trial “due to both his dangerousness to the community and risk of flight.” They argued that Sayoc committed a “domestic terror attack.”
Prosecutors also wrote that Sayoc has been linked to devices mailed to Democratic megadonor Tom Steyer and CNN since his arrest, suggesting additional explosive devices could be detected during the FBI’s ongoing investigation.
According to the letter, evidence taken from Sayoc’s electronic devices reportedly suggested he began plotting the attacks as early as July.
“The defendant conducted a domestic terrorist attack targeting at least 15 victims with improvised explosive devices (‘IEDS’) that he sent to locations throughout the country in padded mailing envelopes,” U.S. Attorney Geoffrey Berman wrote in a letter to Judge Edwin Torres.
The Hill 1625 K Street, NW Suite 900 Washington DC 20006 | 202-628-8500 tel | 202-628-8503 fax
The contents of this site are ©2018 Capitol Hill Publishing Corp., a subsidiary of News Communications, Inc.