thehill.com



The final week of the midterm election has seen a flurry of last-minute, behind-the-scenes jockeying in House leadership races, even though it’s unclear which party will control the lower chamber after Election Day.
Chief Deputy Whip Patrick McHenryPatrick Timothy McHenryJockeying already stepping up in House leadership fights On The Money: Midterms to shake up House finance panel | Chamber chief says US not in trade war | Mulvaney moving CFPB unit out of DC | Conservatives frustrated over big spending bills Midterms to shake up top posts on House finance panel MORE (R-N.C.) is expected to seek a promotion in GOP leadership and challenge Conference Chair Cathy McMorris RodgersCathy McMorris  RodgersJockeying already stepping up in House leadership fights Election Countdown: 5 days to midterms | Steve King faces his toughest test | Oprah stumps for Abrams in Georgia | Trump stokes controversy with immigration ad | Dems keep focus on health care | Polls show West Virginia, Indiana Senate races tightening Koch network moves to give late-campaign boost to GOP's McMorris Rodgers MORE (R-Wash) for majority whip, the No. 3 post, if Republicans hold the House, multiple GOP sources said.
Normally a backroom operator, McHenry this week publicly announced he had raised $16 million for his colleagues this cycle and held nearly 200 fundraising events.   
Rep. Liz CheneyElizabeth (Liz) Lynn CheneyJockeying already stepping up in House leadership fights Liz Cheney running for Republican Conference chair: report Trump administration could use military bases to export coal, gas MORE (R-Wyo.), former Vice President Dick Cheney’s daughter, is gearing up for a leadership bid this year, while Majority Leader Kevin McCarthyKevin Owen McCarthyJockeying already stepping up in House leadership fights The Hill's 12:30 Report — Trump to speak on immigration | Dems confident 5 days to midterms | Pittsburgh suspect pleads not guilty Pressure grows on House GOP to denounce Steve King MORE (R-Calif.), Whip Steve ScaliseStephen (Steve) Joseph ScaliseJockeying already stepping up in House leadership fights Liz Cheney running for Republican Conference chair: report The Hill's 12:30 Report — Trump to speak on immigration | Dems confident 5 days to midterms | Pittsburgh suspect pleads not guilty MORE (R-La.) and others eyeing top jobs are fanning out across the country to stump for colleagues whose support they’ll need to climb the leadership ladder later this month.
Across the aisle, the Congressional Black Caucus this week issued a surprising demand that’s threatening to derail Nancy PelosiNancy Patricia D'Alesandro PelosiJockeying already stepping up in House leadership fights Your pocketbook is on the ballot The Hill's Morning Report — Presented by PhRMA — Congress faces crush of November deadlines MORE’s return to the Speaker’s Office: A CBC member should be in one of the top two leadership posts in any shake-up of the team, the group said.
Of course, everything hinges on what happens on Tuesday night. And all of the political posturing and maneuvering suggests ambitious lawmakers are trying to put themselves in the strongest position even before the official wheeling and dealing gets underway after Election Day.
“People are announcing early because they feel a big change coming and want to position themselves before the final deals are cut,” a House Democratic lawmaker told The Hill.
Republicans will hold an internal vote on their new leadership team on Nov. 14, just eight days after the election. Democrats will hold their internal leadership election on Nov. 28.
Dems should ‘walk our talk’
Democrats are feeling more and more confident they will seize control of the House after eight years wandering in the political wilderness. But if that happens, the party’s old bulls are angling to occupy the same posts they held the last time Democrats were in power.
Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.) and Minority Whip Steny HoyerSteny Hamilton HoyerJockeying already stepping up in House leadership fights Black Caucus calls for African-American representation among House leadership Dems warn party message lacks punch MORE (D-Md.) — who have held a firm grip on power for more than a decade — are expected to run for Speaker and majority leader, respectively.
That has left frustrated rank-and-file members, who have been clamoring for new blood in the party’s entrenched leadership, scrambling to lay down a marker and ensure their voices are heard in the potentially dramatic and hectic leadership battle.
The Congressional Black Caucus (CBC), a key voting bloc in the caucus, began circulating a “Dear Colleague” letter this week calling for one of their own to be in the No. 1 or 2 spot, if Pelosi or Hoyer don’t retain their posts.
“After 229 years as a Congress, we have never had an African American in either of the top two leadership positions. It’s time we walk our talk and provide the transformational change our constituents are calling for,” CBC Chairman Cedric RichmondCedric   Levon RichmondJockeying already stepping up in House leadership fights Black Caucus calls for African-American representation among House leadership Working together to improve diversity and inclusion MORE (D-La.) wrote in the letter.
The letter does not explicitly endorse Rep. Jim ClyburnJames (Jim) Enos ClyburnJockeying already stepping up in House leadership fights Clyburn cancels event with Dem candidate accused of beating his ex-wife  Pelosi: I'd be a 'transitional figure' if Dems retake House MORE (D-S.C.), the assistant leader and No. 3 House Democrat, for the job. Some sources think the CBC is trying to gain leverage in the leadership fight, enabling them to potentially cut a deal with Pelosi for the majority leader post.
Others said Richmond's letter was just the latest twist in a long-running campaign by CBC members to push Clyburn to get more aggressive in his pursuit of a top leadership spot. In recent weeks, the assistant leader has expressed an interest in becoming a “transitional” Speaker, but only if Pelosi is unable to secure the spot. And he’s shown no appetite for challenging Hoyer, after an unsuccessful challenge for the No. 2 seat after the 2010 elections.
“I read that as they’re frustrated with Clyburn. … I think they see this thing happening Tuesday, and the music will stop and they won’t have a chair,” said a former Democratic leadership aide. “When you’re trying to get your guy to move, and you’re like, ‘OK, we’ll just light a fire around you.’”
Clyburn’s office did not respond Friday to a request for comment.
If he runs for whip, the No. 3 spot, Clyburn could face a challenge from Rep. Ben Ray Lujan (D-N.M.), who has led the Democrat’s campaign operation for the past two cycles and will be looking for his next move after what’s expected to be a successful election night.
“Sounds like the letter was aimed at Ben Ray Lujan,” a Democratic source said. “The CBC feared he was picking up steam for whip and would have blocked Clyburn.”
GOP maneuvering
On the GOP side, things could get just as messy.
While Scalise has said he wouldn’t challenge McCarthy for the Speaker’s gavel, Scalise did not rule out taking on McCarthy for minority leader if Republicans lose the House, according to an interview he gave to Roll Call.
Both men have been barnstorming the country for the past month, raising cash and building chits with vulnerable colleagues as they desperately try to save the GOP majority.
McCarthy has been everywhere — Ohio, Kansas, Nevada, California, Arizona, Missouri — and that was just in the past few days. This week, Scalise campaigned in North Carolina for Republican candidate Mark Harris and Reps. Ted BuddTheodore (Ted) Paul BuddJockeying already stepping up in House leadership fights Election Countdown: One week from midterms, House battlefield expands Dems seek to expand House fight one week before midterms MORE, Richard HudsonRichard Lane HudsonJockeying already stepping up in House leadership fights North Carolina GOP leader shares fake photo mocking Ford Trump calls North Carolina redistricting ruling ‘unfair’ MORE and George HoldingGeorge Edward Bell HoldingJockeying already stepping up in House leadership fights The importance of advancing the U.S.-India partnership GOP super PAC expands field program to 40 districts MORE; GOP hopeful Denver Riggleman in Virginia; Rep. Tom MacArthurThomas (Tom) Charles MacArthurJockeying already stepping up in House leadership fights The Hill's Morning Report — Presented by PhRMA — One week to the midterms: Election handicappers weigh in GOP Rep to top-ranking Dem who accused him of bigotry: 'Apologize to my children' MORE in New Jersey; Rep. John FasoJohn James FasoJockeying already stepping up in House leadership fights Top 10 GOP House seats most likely to flip in a blue wave Democrats close campaign by hammering GOP on health care MORE in New York; and Rep. Andy BarrGarland (Andy) Hale BarrJockeying already stepping up in House leadership fights Trump's attack on Ryan seen as advance scapegoating Trump bashes Paul Ryan on birthright citizenship: Focus on holding the majority MORE in Kentucky.
A Cheney-Scalise alliance?
Cheney joined Scalise on the campaign trail this week, which suggests an interesting political alliance between the majority whip, Scalise’s right-hand man McHenry, and the former vice president’s daughter.
Cheney has told colleagues she will run for GOP conference chair regardless of whether Republicans are in the majority or minority, sources said. That could pit her against McMorris Rodgers, who is expected to run for GOP whip in the majority but could seek to stay in the leadership role she’s held for the past six years if Republicans find themselves in the minority.
Scalise and McMorris Rodgers have clashed in the past: She briefly challenged him for the majority leader job in the wake of Speaker John BoehnerJohn Andrew BoehnerJockeying already stepping up in House leadership fights Trump's attack on Ryan seen as advance scapegoating Pressure grows on House GOP to denounce Steve King MORE’s resignation in 2015, though she dropped out of the race after support failed to materialize.
“I never got the sense [McMorris Rodgers] meshed well with the rest of the leadership team,” a GOP lawmaker told The Hill on Friday.
But another GOP source said the anonymous lawmaker has probably never been part of a team. And the source argued that Cheney, a freshman lawmaker, is hardly ready for prime time, pointing to her abandoned 2014 primary challenge against Sen. Mike EnziMichael (Mike) Bradley EnziJockeying already stepping up in House leadership fights Overnight Energy — Presented by Southern Utah Wilderness Alliance — Judge upholds Obama's marine monument | GOP lawmakers worried states using water rule to block fossil fuels | Lawmakers press Trump ahead of ethanol decision GOP senators ask EPA to block states that have 'hijacked' rule to stop fossil fuel production MORE (R-Wyo.) that had critics labeling her a carpetbagger.
“It's not the first time Cheney has gotten ahead of herself,” the GOP source said. “She may be ready for a role in the future, but she's certainly not yet.”
Stumping with Scalise in the coastal town of Toms River, N.J., Cheney dodged questions about whether she was running for leadership and said she was completely focused on the midterms.
“People know they are better off now than they were two years ago and that all is going to come to a stop if we don't keep the majority, so we're going to fight hard till Tuesday,” Cheney told The Hill on Friday.
If Republicans defy the odds and hang on to the House, sources are expecting McHenry to make a play for majority whip, a post he appeared poised to win in 2015 until McCarthy unexpectedly dropped his bid for the Speakership.
McHenry has been crisscrossing the country and raising serious cash, including $7.7 million for GOP colleagues and another $2.6 million to the GOP campaign arm.
“McHenry ran for whip in 2015 and felt very good about where he was going there. He has done the chief deputy whip job successfully for four and a half years,” said a senior GOP aide. “It’d be natural for him to move up.”
If Republicans are relegated to the minority on Tuesday, McHenry is expected to seek the ranking member slot on the powerful Financial Services Committee.
Juliegrace Brufke contributed from Toms River, N.J. Mike Lillis also contributed.
 
The Hill 1625 K Street, NW Suite 900 Washington DC 20006 | 202-628-8500 tel | 202-628-8503 fax
The contents of this site are ©2018 Capitol Hill Publishing Corp., a subsidiary of News Communications, Inc.