thehill.com






Vice President Pence maintained in an interview with Hill.TV on Friday that Republicans will keep control of the House in next week's midterm elections. 
"I think we're going to expand our majority in the United States Senate, and I think we're going to hold our Republican majority in the House of Representatives," Pence told Hill.TV's Buck Sexton.
"But that being said, there is certainly common ground in areas that we can work that the president has laid out," Pence added when asked about working with Democrats if they win the House, citing issues like trade and infrastructure.
"I think there's a broad range of areas that we'll be able to work with that Democrat minority in the House and the Senate, and we'll continue to reach out to do that."
The comments from Pence, a former six-term House member, came shortly after President TrumpDonald John TrumpCurbelo explains reason he forgave man who tweeted death threat Obama accuses Trump of ‘political stunt’ on border politics Voter registration in California reaches all-time high before midterms MORE acknowledged earlier Friday that Republicans could end up losing control of the lower chamber in Tuesday's midterms.
"It could happen. Could happen. We're doing very well, and we're doing really well in the Senate, but could happen," Trump said at a rally in West Virginia. 
"And you know what you do? My whole life, you know what I say? 'Don't worry about it, I'll just figure it out,'" he continued. "Does that make sense? I'll figure it out."
Trump has been active on the campaign trail in recent weeks, criss-crossing the country in an effort to boost GOP Senate and gubernatorial candidates and get Republicans to the polls.
Democrats are widely favored to win the House. They need to net 23 seats to take control of the chamber.
The nonpartisan Cook Political Report has rated 72 Republican-held House seats — and only five Democratic seats — as "at risk" ahead of the elections.
Meanwhile, Republicans are widely favored to keep control of the Senate, where Democrats have a less favorable map and are defending 10 seats in states Trump won in 2016.
— Julia Manchester 
Vice President Pence said in an interview with Hill.TV on Friday that the reimposition of the last set of sanctions lifted under the Iran nuclear deal will be the most punitive sanctions the country has ever faced. 
Daily Caller reporter Henry Rodgers said Friday that he doesn't think Rep. Steve King (R-Iowa) will lose his reelection bid in the wake of recent controversial statements, which many have called racist. 
Progressive Navin Nayak predicted a gender gap seen among voters in midterm polls will play out on Tuesday with big gains for Democrats from female voters, and warned that it is a dangerous omen for Republicans ahead of the next presidential race.
Vice President Pence's former spokesman, Marc Lotter, said on Thursday that he believes that polls are not reflecting the actual level of Republican voter enthusiasm ahead of the midterms. 
American Conservative Union chairman Matt Schlapp said in an interview that aired Friday on "Rising" that Democratic members of unions are among voters calling for a stricter immigration process ahead of the midterms. 
Democrats likely will win back a number of House seats in next week's midterm elections that "Republicans were lucky to have," American Conservative Union chairman Matt Schlapp said in an interview that aired Friday on "Rising."
The Hill 1625 K Street, NW Suite 900 Washington DC 20006 | 202-628-8500 tel | 202-628-8503 fax
The contents of this site are ©2018 Capitol Hill Publishing Corp., a subsidiary of News Communications, Inc.