thehill.com



President TrumpDonald John TrumpCurbelo explains reason he forgave man who tweeted death threat Obama accuses Trump of ‘political stunt’ on border politics Voter registration in California reaches all-time high before midterms MORE acknowledged Friday that Republicans could lose control of the House in next week's midterm elections.
Speaking at a rally in West Virginia, Trump lamented the possibility of dealing with a Democratic majority but sought to offer solace to his supporters.
"It could happen. Could happen. We're doing very well, and we're doing really well in the Senate, but could happen," the president said of the Democrats' chances of winning control of the lower chamber.
"And you know what you do? My whole life, you know what I say? 'Don't worry about it, I'll just figure it out,'" he continued. "Does that make sense? I'll figure it out."
The rare admission from Trump comes as election forecasters say Democrats have a good chance of winning the House and Republicans are in position to keep control of the Senate.
Democrats need to pick up 23 seats to regain control of the lower chamber and prediction models, such as FiveThirtyEight's House forecast and the non-partisan The Cook Political Report, favor Democrats in the fight for control of the House.
Trump implied he would not be responsible for a Republican loss because he is unable to stump for every GOP House candidate.
"I'm not saying they don't squeak it by," the president said of Democrats. "Maybe because they got a lot of races, and I can't go everywhere. Can't go everywhere."
Trump has previously said the GOP is "very well" in House races, but has been more optimistic in speaking about Senate campaigns.

"The only problem is, with the House, there's so many people. I'd like to stop for every one of them, but there's so many people," he said Thursday.
The president is embarking on a campaign blitz ahead of Election Day on Tuesday, also making stops in Indiana, Montana, Florida, Georgia, Tennessee, Ohio and Missouri. 
Those are states with competitive Senate and gubernatorial races, but fewer key House races. The Senate map is dotted with races in states Trump won in 2016, while the battle for the House is largely being fought in suburban districts where he is unpopular. 
Trump appeared on stage Friday afternoon with GOP Senate candidate Patrick Morrisey, who is running in a tough race against Democratic Sen. Joe ManchinJoseph (Joe) ManchinHillicon Valley: Hate speech finds home on Instagram | Senators push Facebook to fix its ad tools | Manchin hacked | Twitter apologizes after 'Kill All Jews' becomes trending topic Trump acknowledges GOP could lose House: 'Could happen' Election Countdown: Four days out | Early voting exceeds 2014 numbers in many states | Vulnerable Dems throw their party under the bus | Toss-ups to determine Senate control | 10 House GOP seats most likely to flip | Obama campaigns to preserve his legacy MORE (W.Va.), and Republican House candidate Carol Miller, who is running for an open seat that leans Republican, according to the non-partisan Cook Political Report.
The Hill 1625 K Street, NW Suite 900 Washington DC 20006 | 202-628-8500 tel | 202-628-8503 fax
The contents of this site are ©2018 Capitol Hill Publishing Corp., a subsidiary of News Communications, Inc.